Let's talk about Angular services.
So everything we've done up to this
point has been within
the context of a component.
And the challenge is what
happens when you have data or
functionality that needs to be
available for more than one component?
So for the longest time the most
popular question on Stack Overflow for
AngularJS was how can two
controllers share data?
And so the answer here is that
if you have functionality or
data that needs to be shared
across multiple components,
well, you do that with a service.
Now at this point,
I am hoping that you've started to notice
a bit of a trend in that when we define
a model, when we define a component.
That there is something
very similar about those
particular mechanisms that
we're going to see even more so
in Angular services and that is,
everything is just a class.
And so when I realized this,
I had kind of a wat moment,
and I started looking at all of
the things that I was using in Angular.
And I realised that when I'm using
a module, it's a class with some metadata.
If I'm building the pipe, class metadata,
components, obviously we've seen it.
Class metadata, services,
directives everything
that we do in Angular is
a class with some metadata.
So in the case of a service,
we create a class,
we define our methods and
then we make this available
using injectable and
typically provide in root.
And you can expose it directly to
entry module in the providers,
but again,
typically I forego this unless I
have a good reason by
using provide in root.
And then when we want to consume it, well,
we do this via dependency
injection in the constructor
so, With that said,
we're done with this module.
Just kidding, we got a code demo, but
then we're done with this module.
I'm taking this really seriously.
All right, so let's hop into the code.
Let me just make sure I am
on an appropriate branch.
Zoom is being not cool.
There we go, all right.
So we are going to, Take what we
have this far, and
we are going to build out some services.
So in our courses component,
we have this data structure here courses.
And we're going to extract
that into a courses service.
So if we hop into our command line,
we're going to go ng g s will
go common/services/courses.
Let's go d just to make sure that
everything is in the right place.
So common/services/courses,
there we go and,
Let me go ahead and
I'll take off the dry run flag here and
let's go ahead and hop back into our code.
And if we look inside
of our common folder,
we now have services
with our courses service.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going
to extract this data structure and
I'm going to move it over
into our courses service.
So we'll go courses and I'm going to
type this as an array
of course objects and
I'm going to paste this in.
Now this is throwing up just a bit or
it's angry because you
notice here these are numbers and
they should be strings so,
With that said, I can also get rid of,
The constructor, I'm not using it and
providedIn root,
and so
all I've done is I've just picked this up,
I've moved it into a service,
nothing else has changed.
And then from here, I can go into my
constructor and I can inject this.
So I'll go here, private coursesService.
There we go and let's save this and
then on ngOnInit, we're
going to go this.courses =
this.coursesService.
Courses.
All right, and
what I wanna do real quick just,
To illustrate that we are pulling
this from somewhere else.
We'll go Rapid Application
Development Patterns and,
I need to make a pretty
important note here.
THIS MUST BE DONE BY 3.30 OR ELSE!
Don't forget!
All right, so, Let's hop in here and
let's check this out, so now, Here we are.
I've just picked up a structure,
put it into a service,
and then I was able to pull this in.
So hopefully that was incredible,
you're stunned right now
with how simple that is.
That there are times where something is so
easy and so
underwhelming that I'm absolutely
overwhelmed at how underwhelming it is.
In this case, when we're talking
about services in Angular,
that in most cases it
is simply a matter of,
Promotion through refactoring, so
what I'm going to do is
in lieu of a challenge,
if you notice here that
we have in our home
component rather, we have some lessons.
So I'm going to go ahead and
I'm going to create
a lessons service, so
common/services/lessons.
I just do the dry flag,
it's kinda muscle memory at this point,
we'll go here, like so,
we'll generate this and,
I'm gonna call this lessons and
I'm going to pick this up.
Now the one thing that actually
does not like lessons,
which is fix this, save this.
We'll go to our home component.
I'm going to save this.
Let's go into our lessons service.
There we go.
All right, so lesson service,
lessons providedIn root.
Let's go into our home component and
we're going to make this available,
lessonsService.
LessonsService and then from here,
this.lessons =
this.lessonsService.lessons.
All right, now,
Let's see if this is rendering.
All right, good, it is.
Now since we're here, and
since I am freestyling
just a bit even though I
told myself I would not,
I can't help it, it is a sickness.
But please, if you know the cure
don't tell me, I am going to.
All right, so now what I've done is just
using the from operator, from xjs,
I've just taken this lessons array, and
I have now converted this
into an observable stream.
Let's go back to here and,
Rather I'm going to, Just set this and
so Angular does not like it when I
do this, but whatever or it may not.
All I'm doing here is
from the lesson service,
I'm just pulling in the lessons string.
So what this is a,
you can see here it's an observable
of this object with the title on it.
So we're talking about
the async pipe here.
If I go back into my
home component here and
if I change this to the dollar sign,
what should happen is it
should throw an error.
Yay, that's the point.
So now if I go back, what I can do is I
can add in the async pipe, save this and
did this, Get upset?
Let me check.
Let lessons of lessons.
This is, well, all right,
I'm gonna press pause on this for
a sec because I will pick this
up in a moment in terms of.
I'm gonna pull this back off, but
we are going to pick this up in
component driven architecture.
Once we get into component
driven architecture,
this will make a lot more sense,
but setting the stage.
So with that said, let's
pause for some quick Q and A.
And if anybody has any questions
about this, I would love to hear it.
>> What's the difference between
using the providers metadata,
else instantiating the class with new?
>> Instantiating the class with new?
So Riley, so
the question is what's there in using
the providers metadata versus
instantiating a class with new?
Well, so I typically do not new up a class
because that is handled
within the injector.
So the injector is responsible for
essentially keeping a reference.
So you essentially have a key that says,
when I'm looking for
this thing, here's the reference and
then they instantiate it and
they keep that on record for you.
So I'm trying to think of an instance
where I've ever actually instantiated
a class manually and typically I don't
because I let the injector handle that.